In the last video you saw
the equations for
backpropagation.
In this video let's go
over some intuition,
using the computation graph
for how those equations
were derived.
This video is completely optional
so if you free to
watch it or not,
you should be able to do
the whole work either way.
So recall that when
we talked about
logistic regression we
had this forward pass,
where we'll compute z
then a and then a loss,
and entity derivatives we had
this backward pass where
we could first compute da,
and then go on to compute dz,
and then go on to
compute dw and db.
So, the definition for the loss
was l of a comma y equals
negative y log a minus one
minus y times log 1 minus a.
So if you're familiar with
calculus and you take
the derivative of this
with respect to a,
that will give you
the formula for da.
So da is equal to that.
If you actually figure out the
calculus you could show that this
is negative y over a plus one
minus y over one minus a.
Just derived at from
calculus by taking
derivatives of this.
It turns out when you take
another step backwards
to compute dz,
we then worked out that
dz is equal to a minus
y. I did explain why previously,
but it turns out that from
the chain rule of calculus,
dz is equal to da
times g prime of z.
Where here, g of z
equals sigmoid of z,
is activation function for
this output unit in
logistic regression.
So just remember this is
still logistic regression.
We have x_1, x_2,
x_3 and then just
one sigmoid unit
and then that gives us a,
gives us y hat.
So here the activation function
was a sigmoid function.
As in aside only for
those of you familiar
with the chain rule of calculus,
the reason for this is
because a is equal to
sigmoid of z and so partial of
L with respect to z is
equal to partial of
L with respect to a times da,
dz but since a is
equal to sigmoid of z,
this is equal to d,
dz g of z which is
equal to g prime of z.
So that's why this expression,
which is dz in our codes,
is equal to this expression
which is da in
our codes times g prime of
z. and so this is just that.
So that last deviation will
make sense only if you're
familiar with calculus and
specifically the chain rule
from calculus,
but if not don't worry about it.
I'll try to explain the
intuition wherever is needed.
Then finally having
computed dz for
logistic regression
we will compute dw,
which it turned out
was dz times x and
db which is just
dz where you have
a single chain example.
So that was logistic regression.
So what we're going to do when
computing backpropagation
for a neural network
is a calculation a lot
like this but only we'll do it
twice because now we have not
x going to an output unit
but x going to
a hidden layer and then
going to an output unit.
So instead of instead of
this computation being
one step as we have here,
we'll have two steps here
in this kind of neural network
with two layers.
So in this two layer
neural network
that is with the input layer,
a hidden layer, and
an output layer
remember the steps
of our computation.
First, you compute z_1
using this equation,
and then compute a_1,
and then you compute z_2.
Notice z_2 also depends on
the parameters w_2 and b_2.
Then based on z_2 compute a_2
and finally that
gives you the loss.
So what backpropagation does is,
it will go backwards to
compute da_2 and then dz_2.
Looking to go back to
compute dw_2 and db_2,
go backwards to compute
da_1, dz_1 and so on.
We don't need to take
derivatives respect to
the input x since the input x
for supervised learning is fixed.
So we're not trying
to optimize x.
So we won't bother
to take derivatives
at least for supervised learning
with respect to x.
So I'm going to skip
explicitly computing da_2.
If you want you can actually
compute da_2 and then
use that to compute
dz_2 but in practice you
could collapse both of
these steps into one step so
you end up at dz_2 is equal
to a_2 minus y, same as before.
You also going to write dw_2
and db_2 down here below.
You have that dW_2 is equal to
dz_2 times a_1 transpose
and db_2 equals dz_2.
So this step is quite similar
for logistic regression
where we had that
dw was equal to dz times x.
Except that now, a_1 plays
the role of x and there's
an extra transpose there because
the relationship between
the capital matrix W
and our individual parameters
w there's a transpose there.
Because w is equal
to a row vector,
in the case of
logistic regression with
a single output dw_2
is like that,
whereas w here was
a column vector.
So that's why there's
an extra transpose for
a_1 whereas we didn't for x
here for logistic regression.
So this completes half
of backpropagation.
Then again you can compute
da_1 if you wish
although in practice
the computation for da_1
and dz_1 usually collapse
into one step and so what you
could actually implement
is that dz_1 is equal to
w_2 transpose times dz_2 and
then times an element-wise
product of g_1 prime of z_1.
Just to do a check
on the dimensions,
if you have a neural network
that looks like this,
outputs y like so.
If you have n_0 and x equals
n_0 input features and
one hidden unit, and n_2.
So far, and n_2
In our case, just
one output unit then
the matrix W_2 is n_2
by n_1 dimensional,
z_2 and therefore, dz_2
are going to be n_2
by one-dimensional.
There's really going
to be a one-by-one
when we're doing
binary classification.
Z_1, and therefore also,
dz_1 are going to be
n_1 by one-dimensional.
Note that for any variable foo,
foo and dfoo always have
the same dimensions.
So that's why w and dw always
have the same dimension.
Similarly for b, and db,
and z, and dz, and so on.
So to make sure that the
dimensions of this all match up,
we have that dz_1 is equal
to w_2 transpose times dz_2.
Then this is an
element-wise product times
g_1 prime of z_1.
So matching the
dimensions from above,
this is going to be n_1 by one,
is equal to w_2 transpose,
we transpose of this.
So it's just going to be
n_1 by n_2 dimensional.
dz_2 is going to be n_2
by one-dimensional.
Then this, this
the same dimension as z_1.
So this is also
n_1 by one dimensional,
so element-wise product.
So the dimensions too make sense.
n_1 one by 1 dimensional
vector can be obtained
by an n_1 by n_2 dimensional
matrix times n_2 by n_1,
because the product of
these two things gives
you an n_1 by
one-dimensional matrix.
So this becomes
the element-wise product of
two and one by
one dimensional vectors
and so dimensions do match up.
One tip when implementing
a backdrop: If you just
make sure that the dimensions
of your matrices match up,
so if you think through
what are the dimensions of
your various matrices
including w_1, w_2, z_1,
z_2, a_1, a_2, and so
on and just make sure
that the dimensions of
these matrix operations
may match up.
Sometimes, that will already
eliminate quite a lot
of bugs and back-prop.
All right. So this gives us dz_1.
Then finally, just to
wrap up dw_1 and db_1,
we should write
them here I guess.
But since I'm running
out of space,
I'll write them on
the right of the slide.
dw_1 and db_1 are given by
the following formulas.
This is going to be equal
to dz_1 times x transpose.
This is going to be equal to dz,
and you might notice
a similarity between
these equations and
these equations,
which is really
no coincidence because
x plays the role of a_0.
So x transpose is a_0 transpose.
So those equations are actually
very similar. All right.
So that gives a sense for
how back-propagation is derived.
We have six key
equations here for dz_2,
dw_2, db_2, dz_1, dw_1, and db_1.
So let me just take these six
equations and copy them
over to the next slide.
Here they are.
So far we have derived
back-propagation for
ABA training on a single
training example at the time.
But it should come
as no surprise that
rather than working on
a single example at a time,
we would like to vectorize
across different
training examples.
So you remember that
for propagation,
when we're operating on
one example at a time,
we had equations like this,
as let us say, a_1
equals g_1 of z_1.
In order to vectorize,
we took say the z's
and stack them up in
columns like this,
z_1_m, and call this capital Z.
Then we found that by
stacking things up in columns
and defining the capital
uppercase version of this,
we then just had z_1 equals
w_1_x plus b and a_1 equals
g_1 of z_1.
We define the notation
very carefully
in this course to make sure that
stacking examples into
different columns
of a matrix makes
all this workout.
So it turns out that
if you go through
the math carefully,
the same trick also works
for back-propagation.
So the vectorized equations
are as follows: First,
if you take these
d_z's for different training
examples and stack
them as the different columns
of the matrix and same for
this and same for this,
then this is the
vectorized implementation.
Then here's the definition or
here's how you can compute dW_2.
There is this extra one over m
because the cost function J is
this one over m of sum
from I equals one
through m of the losses.
So when computing derivatives,
we have that extra one over
m term just as we did when we
were computing the weight
updates for logistic regression.
Then that's the update
you get for db_2.
Again, some of the d_z's
and then we have a one over
m. Then dz_1 is
computed as follows.
Once again, this is
an element-wise product,
only whereas
previously, we saw on
the previous slide that this was
an n_1 by one dimensional vector.
Now, this is a n_1 by
m dimensional matrix.
Both of these are also
n_1 by m dimensional.
So that's why that asterisk is
a element-wise
product. All right.
Then finally, the
remaining two updates.
Perhaps, it shouldn't
look too surprising.
So I hope that gives
you some intuition for
how the back-propagation
algorithm is derived.
In all of machine learning,
I think the derivation of
the back-propagation algorithm
is actually one of
the most complicated pieces
of math I've seen.
It requires knowing
both linear algebra as well as
the derivative of
matrices to really
derive it from scratch
from first principles.
If you are an expert
in matrix calculus,
using this process, you
might want to derive
the algorithm yourself.
But I think that
there are actually
plenty of deep
learning practitioners
that have seen the derivation
at about the level you've
seen in this video,
and are already able to have
all the right intuitions
and be able to implement
this algorithm very effectively.
So if you are
an expert in calculus,
do see if you can divide
the whole thing from scratch.
It is one of the very
hardest pieces of map on
the very hardest derivations
that I've seen in all
of machine learning.
But either way, if
you implement this,
this will work and
I think you have
enough intuitions to tune
in and get it to work.
So there's just one
last detail I will
share of you before you
implement your neural network,
which is how to
initialize the weights
of your neural network.
It turns out that initializing
your parameters not to
zero but randomly turns
out to be very important
for training video network.
In the next video,
you'll see why.